# SlackReactionCounter
## Brief description
Slack app for counting the number of reactions in a particular channel and sorting them based on a weighted average or total score. In our group, we use a channel to post relevant papers to our research. Group members then rate each paper for its relevancy, using reactions "1", "2", or "3", with respective weights 1, 2, and 3. Then, to select a paper to present as part of our journal club, we can look at previously posted papers and select from the most relevant ones.
## How to run locally
To run locally, simply execute `python app.py`, making sure you have all the required packages. Note that the environment variables `SLACK_BOT_TOKEN`, `SLACK_APP_TOKEN` and `SLACK_CHANNEL_ID` should be set prior to running the app. This can easily be done by adding a `.env` file next to `app.py`. Next, run `/papers help` in an allowed channel to learn what can be done with this app.
## How to host on AWS
To host on AWS, it is much more involved, but thankfully can be achieved with the free tier (max 1M requests per month). First, due to the 3 sec timeout set by Slack, the dispatcher `dispatcher.py` must be in its own AWS Lambda function that has publishing access to a SNS. Additionally, an AWS lambda API Gateway trigger must be added and set as the Slack app request URL.

Next, the actual app should reside in another AWS Lambda function that triggers on an SNS event. Since AWS Lambda doesn't have all Python packages, you need to package the virtual environment Python packages (specifically `[virtualenv]/lib/python3.**/site-packages`, here packaged as `packages-python-3-10.zip`) with the python files `app.py`, `utils.py`, and `aws_app.py` into a zip file (here `app.zip`, generated with `package.sh`) and upload it to AWS. The environment variables can be set directly in the AWS dashboard. Note that the python version used in the virtual environment should match the one on AWS, as well as the operating system for packages such as `numpy`. Finally, because the app execution takes longer than 3 seconds, the timeout of the AWS Lambda function should be increased to a couple of minutes.  